Today we will learn about bud grafting. Bud grafting is when we
take a single bud from one plant and attach it to another plant.
Why do we bud graft? It uses only one bud instead of
a whole branch. This saves plant material and has a high success rate.
Step one. Choose a healthy bud from the parent plant. Use a sharp knife
to cut a small shield shape around the bud, including a thin layer of wood.
Step two. On the rootstock, make a T-shaped cut in the bark.
This is called a T-cut. Gently lift the flaps of bark open.
Step three. Slide the bud shield into the T-cut on the rootstock.
Push it down gently until it fits snugly under the bark flaps.
Step four. Wrap the graft tightly with budding tape. Leave the bud
exposed so it can grow. The tape keeps everything moist and secure.
After a few weeks, the bud starts to grow into a new shoot. The bud
graft is a success! Well done Caleb, now you know how to do bud grafting.